# ShellShow

A terminal-based presentation tool that renders Markdown files as interactive slideshows.

## Requirements

- Python 3.12+
- [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/)

## Setup & run

### Setup

```bash
uv sync
```

### Run

```bash
uv run python main.py
```

### For presentation only mode:

Provide presentation path as a parameter

```bash
uv run python main.py sample.md
```

# Features

- Headers start a new slide (by default H1 and H2, but can be H1 only) — the title is rendered as ASCII art.
- All other elements are revealed one block at a time (like PowerPoint animations).
- Supported blocks: headings, paragraphs, lists, code (syntax highlighted), tables, alerts, and dividers.
- Not supported markdown blocks: quetes, images
- Extended support: basic pixalarts
- Block styling via inline metadata comments.
  - alignment
  - color
  - font style
  - background color
  - animation
- Optional project-level metadata (title, author, date, table of contents, default colour scheme).
  - title: when defined a title page is generated as the first slide, displaying author and date to if present
  - author and date
  - table of content: if set true then a table of content page is generated by based on all the slides to-be-displayed
  - colod theme: can define presentation-level background color and text color (this can be overriden on elements)
  - default animation in the presentation
  - new slide starter: by default each H1 and H2 starts on a new slide, this can be changed to H1 only
- Help that can be used as a prompt for presentation generation or can be exported as an ai skill
- Full keyboard-only support
- Screenshot during presentation
- Presentation-only mode: open a single file and present it

## Font size

This is a terminal-based application so setting font size must happen within the terminal window itself. Application will be using that.

# Why use it?

- Retro style
- Lightweight, runs in any terminal. Only python (and uv) is needed
- Easy switching to other screen during presentation
- Presentation can be generated by any LLM, help can be copied as a prompt or as a SKILL.md content
- Styling is hidden withing comment so it is not rendered
- Works with any markdown, including project README.md files. Can be used as an easy-to-consume tutorial. Just try it with this readme:

```bash
uv run python main.py README.md
```
